Text editor edits plain test
Word processors formats the text.
HTML documents are the building blocks of the internet.
HTNL is made up of the text that the user will actually read in their browser
Markup- tells the browser what that text should look like and how its arranged.
Within markup, therE can be references to include other documents and files like images and videos.
Markup- test with meaning.
em- text is emphasized. displayed in italics.
Element start and end with tags or opening and closing tags.
tags always start with angle brackets
A whole element contains a single opening and closing word including text to be displayed.
White spaces- spaces, tabs and line breaks.
br, hr img are example of void/empty elements.
SYNTAX: the grammar rules of a language
Nesting: the idea that some bits of code can go inside other bits of code
MARKUP: code that tells the browser what the text on a web page should look like
HYPERTEXT: text that can have links or references.
WHITESPACE: a GENERAL TERMS FOR SPACES, TABS AND LINE BREAKS.
TYPOGRAPHICAL elements: ed mark, sub ,sup.
Elements that do not create blocks are called inline elements.
block elements:- makes a box around it hence block level elements.
Division(div)- divides a pages into different sections.
div element is a generic container meant to organise text and divide page into sections.
continue on ex 21.
p and li elements are the two tags that have optional closing tags in html.
WEB ADDRESSES
a WEB address is called a URL(uNIFORM rESOURCE LOCATOR).
UNIFORM = standardized
RESOURCE =a file or other data object
LOCATOR = address for finding something
Absolute URL - THAT HAS A FULL ADDRESSES
EXAMPLES of qualified urls: https://www.google.com and file:///home/winnie/photos/scotland.jpg (accessing locally)
<a></a>- anchor for anchoring web pages for links.
attribute: extra piece of data that gives meaning.
a element is an inline element. It does not create a box on the page. Links normally have the appearenace of a specifically highlighted piece of text.
It is neccessary to put fully qualified urls for proper page access
img is an inline element
relative links-url- used for locating files in the pc